According to the Challenger layoff
report, US hiring is now at its lowest
level since the Great Recession with
employers already laying off nearly 1
million workers this year. And rather
than every headline pretending to blame
AI for mass layoffs, I'm going to break
down the real reason companies are
actually gutting the workforce. While
the nation's labor force has
continuously been sold the illusion of a
robust job market, one defined by record
levels of low unemployment, the reality
is that the last 5 years have been
nothing more than a complete facade.
with every metric and revision simply
comparing our modern job market to the
worst economic catastrophe since the
Great Depression. And just like during
the Great Recession, when corporations
and government alike made it clear that
the livelihoods of the average American
were the least of their concerns,
today's modern layoffs once again prove
that beneath the supposed return to
office mandates and the rise of AI
dominance lies a coordinated effort to
conceal the truth that the powers at B
cannot replace and outsource American
workers fast enough. a pattern that has
remained consistent since the 1960s. To
absorb the influx of unemployed Mexican
laborers and offset rising industrial
costs in the US, the two governments
established the border industrialization
program or BIP in 1965. It encouraged
American corporations to build twin
plants or macaladoras along the US
Mexico border where raw materials could
be imported duty-free assembled by
Mexican workers earning between 33 and50
an hour compared to the roughly $2.50 50
cents for American workers and then be
exported back to the US with tariffs
applied only to the value added during
production. And while it was marketed as
a cold war measure to secure America's
southern border and reduce illegal
immigration, the BIP quickly evolved
into the foundation of modern crossber
outsourcing. By the 1980s, the Maladora
system had expanded from a handful of
factories to over 1,000 plants. And with
the pesos repeated devaluations,
American corporations took further
advantage, driving wages even lower and
deepening the exploitation of an already
underpaid workforce, where the surge in
profitability drew in major US
manufacturers like Ford Motor Company
and General Electric. Ford hollowed out
Detroit's industrial base, relocating
over 20,000 jobs to its assembly plant
in Sonora, while General Electric
offshored more than 10,000 positions as
it expanded operations in Tijana. And by
the time labor unions began lobbying
Congress over the increasing losses of
American jobs, the media had already
reframed the crisis as progress,
justifying mass layoffs and community
collapse under the illusion of cheaper
goods and greater consumer savings. And
while the United States faced rising
inflation and sought to maintain
stability in East Asia, President Jimmy
Carter's 1979 reduction of tariffs on
Chinese imports gave American
corporations a powerful new incentive to
move production overseas. Among the
first to capitalize on the shift was
General Electric CEO Jack Welch, who
under his leadership initiated one of
the earliest and largest waves of
American manufacturing jobs being
outsourced abroad, eliminating roughly
115,000 domestic positions between 1981
and 1985. Welch also laid the groundwork
for white collar outsourcing,
establishing GE service centers in
Gurggon, India to exploit lower
engineering wages. As he famously put
it, ideally you'd have every plant you
own on a barge. Capturing the emerging
corporate mindset that American jobs
were no longer foundational assets, but
disposable costs to be minimized.
Fortune magazine later celebrated that
philosophy, naming Welch its manager of
the century in 1999. And while the
nation's workforce was already feeling
the impact of mass offshoring, the
Reagan administration began transforming
that corporate mindset into political
strategy. Robert Bonitati, one of the
architects behind Reagan's labor
outreach, openly detailed how the
administration's messaging was
deliberately crafted to appear focused
on restoring prosperity for hardworking
Americans. In attempting to influence
bluecollar workers, it is possible to
target politically appealing messages to
that group by emphasizing jobs, job
creation, and the direct benefit to
workers of our efforts to revitalize the
economy. Blueco collar workers seem to
have been susceptible to such messages
and found them very appealing during the
1980 campaign. Some thought might be
also given to staging events that
emphasize job creation or economic
growth. Unfortunately, many politically
appealing messages that could be
transmitted to bluecollar workers, like
limiting auto and steel imports to
preserve American jobs, just don't make
good policy sense. Between 1981 and
1989, more than 1.6 6 million American
jobs were offshore to Japan, Mexico,
South Korea, Taiwan, and Hong Kong,
placing enormous downward pressure on
job quality and wages. And while
headlines praised the 16.1 million jobs
created during Reagan's two terms, they
failed to mention that only 28% were in
high school occupations, with 12.5
million concentrated in low-wage service
work such as waist staff, janitorial
services, and retail. And as high school
graduates increasingly filled these
low-wage positions, their path for
advancements also narrowed, driving a
broader collapse in wages. During this
period, earnings for young men fell from
$12.19 in 1979 to $8.72
in 1995, while wages for young women
declined from $91 to $743.
where after a decade of industrial
decline, the 1990s marked the largest
transformation of the American workforce
under President Bill Clinton. Trade
agreements such as NAFTA and permanent
normal trade relations with China opened
US markets to aggressive import
competition. Between 1994 and 2001, more
than 879,000 American jobs were
officially certified as loss to trade
under the government's trade adjustment
assistance program, with economists
estimating the real number was two to
three times higher. Meanwhile, headlines
celebrated rising household incomes and
the creation of 22 million jobs, the
most of any presidency. But of course,
those gains were largely an illusion.
Alongside record bankruptcy rates,
American families only appeared
wealthier because they were working
longer hours than ever before. By 1998,
the typical middle inome household
worked 3,885
hours a year, 247 hours, or roughly six
additional weeks more than in 1989.
American workers were now putting in
more hours per year than nearly every
other advanced economy, second only to
Portugal. with any effort to expose the
decline in living standards to only be
drowned out by the illusion of a booming
stock market. After Reagan lifted SEC
restrictions on corporate stock buybacks
in 1982, legalizing what had once been
considered market manipulation,
corporations began funneling profits
into artificially inflating share
prices, where under Clinton, as trade
liberalization accelerated and corporate
profits surged, companies more than
doubled their buybacks and expanded
stock option programs by over 40%.
Allowing executives to personally profit
from the inflation. or between 1989 and
1998, middle inome families captured
just 3% of total stock market gains but
absorbed nearly 40% of the rising
consumer debt. And while 22 million jobs
did make for a compelling headline,
roughly 40 to 45% were low skill,
low-wage service positions. The few
high-paying roles that did emerge came
not from real economic growth, but from
the speculative frenzy of the.com
bubble. Defined by the success of
companies like Apple and Microsoft,
the.com boom was fueled by venture
capitalists pouring billions of dollars
into startups under the promise that the
internet would revolutionize entire
industries. Stock valuations increased
so rapidly that in 1999 alone, shares of
Qualcomm surged by over 2600%,
while 12 other NASDAQ stocks climbed by
at least a,000%. This new era optimism
offered an entire generation the promise
of immense opportunity filled with stock
options, rapid career advancement, and
the chance to shape a transformative
era. But as the demand for technical
talent exploded, corporations began
claiming a shortage of qualified
American workers, giving them a new
justification to expand access to cheap
foreign labor. In 1990, the H-1B visa
program was introduced under the
immigration act signed by President
George HW Bush. Initially intended to
address temporary shortages in high-skll
fields such as engineering, computing,
and finance, employers were required to
sponsor workers and certify that their
hiring would not undercut domestic wages
or job opportunities with an annual cap
set at 65,000 visas. However, by the
late 1990s, the US Department of
Commerce estimated that nearly 28% of
all programming positions in the country
were filled by H-1B visa holders, where
following heavy lobbying from the tech
industry, President Bill Clinton signed
the American Competitiveness in the 21st
Century Act, raising the visa cap to
195,000
between 2000 and 2003. And although the
media framed this expansion as a
response to domestic skills shortage, a
2003 new immigrant survey found that
within identical occupations, permanent
residents earned 25.4%
more than H-1B visa holders, showing
that once again, the program's intent
had shifted from solving labor shortages
and into suppressing wages. And while
the H-1B cap was reset to 65,000 workers
following the.com bubble, companies have
continued to exploit these same
loopholes ever since. The most common
involves outsourcing firms that hire
large numbers of H-1B workers and then
contract them out to major tech
companies, acting as intermediaries that
give corporations access to foreign
labor without filling out their own
petitions. These firms often use what's
known as the capex exempt category, an
exemption originally intended for
nonprofit universities, research
institutions, and government agencies
engage in scientific or academic work.
To bypass the cap, many outsourcing
firms create nominal partnerships or
shell affiliations with universities and
nonprofit research labs, classifying
themselves as capex exempt and filling
visa petitions year round. And once
approved, these workers can now be
rotated between multiple projects or
reassigned to different clients without
filling new petitions, multiplying the
reach of each visa and stretching the
intent of the law beyond recognition.
And while you're probably thinking, how
is this not illegal?
Be prepared to be very disappointed. In
2013, two of the largest outsourcing
firms, Infosys and Tata Consultancy
Services, were investigated by the
Department of Labor for using this exact
strategy. The investigation found that
the average salary for an H-1B worker at
Infosys was $70,882
and at Tata just $65,565
compared to $91,990
for domestic computer systems analyst.
Other partnered firms were saving even
more, cutting labor costs by as much as
36 to 41%, or roughly 40,000 to $45,000
less per worker each year. Yet, despite
clear evidence that the US workers were
being undercut, directly violating the
H-1B program's supposed protections for
wages and working conditions, the
Department of Labor ruled it permissible
so long as those workers were
technically employed through a
contractor. A loophole that to this day
continues to legalize wage suppression
hidden behind the headlines of mass
layoffs.
D'Angelo says his replacement, a worker
from India, told him he was making half
D'Angelo's salary with no benefits.
I didn't get laid off for lack of work.
I got laid off because somebody cheaper
could do my job. We met with this group
of workers who all had to train
replacements. Leo Pereira had just
received high performance reviews from
Disney. When he was called into a
personnel meeting, he expected a raise
and a promotion. And instead,
I was given the news that in 90 days my
job was over and I had to train my
replacement. For years, the nation's
workforce has been bombarded with
campaigns urging people to learn to
code, promoting the belief that
programming skills were the path to a
stable, high-paying career. Yet,
according to a study by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, among college
graduates aged 22 to 27, computer
science and computer engineering majors
now face some of the highest
unemployment rates in the country, 6.1%
and 7.5% respectively, more than double
the rates of biology and even art
history graduates. Recent data also
shows that the unemployment among
computer occupations climbed from an
average of 1.98% in 2019 to 3.02% in
2025.
Even as the share of IT workers within
the H-1B program rose from 32% in 2003
to more than 65% in the last 5 years. So
when these companies claim that AI is
responsible for these mass layoffs, it's
worth comparing these headlines to the
actual hiring data. Amazon, for
instance, has cut roughly 27,000
positions between 2022 and 2024 with
another 10,000 to 12,000 layoffs in 2025
alone, attributed to AI eliminating
future roles. Yet in that same year,
Amazon ranks number one, number 11,
number 24, and number 49 among the top
100 companies approved for H-1B workers,
totaling 14,365
new hires or more than the number of
layoffs this entire year. The second
highest employer is Infosys, one of the
very outsourcing firms investigated for
undercutting US wages, followed closely
by Microsoft, which saw it stock price
surge after announcing yet another round
of AI related layoffs. Meta ranks fourth
even after publicly shutting down its AI
assistant M and replacing it with a
humanass assisted version where all AI
responses are reviewed and edited by a
few dozen contractors in Manila Park
whose hours and oversight remain
undisclosed. And according to data
released by the White House, the pattern
doesn't stop there. One company was
approved for 5,189
H1B workers in 2025 while laying off
roughly 16,000 US employees that same
year. Another was approved for 1,698
H1B workers while cutting 2400 American
jobs in Oregon. A third has reduced its
US workforce by 27,000 since 2022 while
receiving 25,075
H1B approvals, which I wonder who that
one is. and yet another cut a thousand
American jobs in February despite being
approved for 1,137
H-1B workers for 2025. With each
statistic telling the exact same story,
the systemic gutting of the American
workforce is disguised behind the
language of innovation and global
competitiveness. And what do we get in
return? A narrative that blames workers
themselves, insisting that we simply
lack the skills and experience to get
the job done. Which brings us to the
question of whether this new proposal to
charge a $100,000 H1B fee will actually
do anything to solve this. The first
issue is a national fee exemption for
H-1B workers whose role, company, or
industry is considered in the national
interest and not a threat to the
security or welfare of the United
States. And when seven corporations own
nearly everything, I don't think there's
too much left to say about how flexible
that definition can become. The second
issue is that this proposal does nothing
to address the loopholes, the very
reason this program is being abused in
the first place. And the third is that
in 2017, the US government passed the
Tax Cuts and Job Act, which gave
corporations an even bigger incentive to
offshore operations. The bill cut the
corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. But
it also slashed taxes on profits earned
by foreign subsidiaries to just 10.5%
later revised slightly to 12.6%.
Meaning that even if companies were
forced to pay this new $100,000 fee,
they'd still save far more money sending
jobs overseas than just paying American
workers. So, while I would love for this
to be something that actually makes a
difference, the unfortunate reality is
that this is probably just another
attempt to make the nation's workforce
hopeful that change is being made. All
while absolutely nothing is being done
to build the infrastructure needed for
the moment that AI truly does begin
replacing American workers. We have to
recognize that this is a situation where
the system is absolutely broken. It is
absolutely corrupt. It is filled with so
much deceit and greed that it's
impossible to know what the truth is. I
mean this this entire video showed that
everything that we're told uh the
majority of things are not true. We have
been so convinced that we lack the
necessary experience and skill sets and
knowledge and then we go and we
continuously pursue it and we're still
told that there aren't enough educated
Americans. I I don't know what else we
have to do to prove that we have a
competent workforce.
And it's disgusting to continuously be
told that we're not. It's it's the fact
that Americans are treated just like a
bunch of idiots is disgusting.
The amount of people, the tens of
thousands, the hundreds of thousands of
workers that feel like they are
absolutely worthless. They can provide
no value. They can't support their
families. They can't support themselves.
They can't even think about starting a
family or buying a house or getting an
apartment or moving out of their parents
their parents' house because they can't
get a job because they can't make more
than $1850 an hour because they can't uh
just have some peace of mind that I'm
not going to get fired next month even
though I just got the job.
H what kind of foundation can you create
when you have absolutely no idea what
direction to look in this video itself
it's it's it's almost hard to it's a
hard video to watch because it just
keeps getting worse. That's what I felt
like writing this. It was like, when do
I stop? The amount of information I
didn't even include
and and and we're all looking for
somebody who's going to fix this.
So, in this situation, because I made
this video
there, you guys are looking to me of
what is it that I can do to fix this?
The reality is is that as individuals,
none of us are going to be able to fix
this situation. It's going to take us
all doing things together. So,
one of the things that I'm providing is
in the description, I have a link to be
able to contact your local
representative. What you do is you type
in your zip code and it's going to show
you who it is that you can reach out to.
Um, I will say that personally
if I was a viewer and somebody
recommended this to me as a solution,
I'd be frustrated. The reason that I am
even mentioning this, even though my
confidence in the government is
below negative, um, is that I made a
video 6 months or so ago about ghost
jobs. Exactly to the day, a month later,
the Library of Congress used my exact
sources, the way in which I scripted the
video and made an entire post about it.
And that was their first post about
ghost jobs. And um you know, that showed
to me that at least people are watching
it. It's getting out there. Do I know if
that Library of Congress post is making
a difference? I don't know. but it's
it's some sort of way of at least we're
trying to do our best. And at the end of
the day, these politicians all they want
is to get reelected. And so if you're
flooding them with, hey, to get
reelected, this is what you have to fix.
At at some point, they're going to have
to address it. Um the second thing that
I've done is I've presented a link to a
petition which is the truth in job
advertising and accountability act which
is a landmark legislation designed to
eliminate fake job ads, protect job
seekers privacy and restore integrity to
the hiring process. It ensures that
every public job posting is a genuine
opportunity funded timely and traceable
while holding employers, recruiters and
platforms accountable for deceptive
practices. This was first introduced to
us, the the community, by the founding
member, Eric Thompson, in one of my more
recent videos where we got the petition
from 300 signatures to over 4,000
signatures. So, uh, again, that that
shows the impact in a week and a half of
what our community can do, what it is
that we can do together. Um, other
things that I will always mention is
what are ways that you can help your
neighbor? What are productive ways you
can have conversations? What are ways
that you can help support the people
that you do look up to? Um,
what are the ways that you can do the
small things that nobody else will
notice? Because it'll show to you that
you are making a difference, that you
are worth something, that you are
capable of making a difference. I always
mention picking up trash, fixing the the
floor mats in front of a restaurant. um
uh you know the the small things like
that opening the door holding it for
somebody um helping your neighbor you
know things like that do make a
difference. Um the last thing if you
would like to support me and you want to
be a part of the community I have
launched the Patreon so you get access
to the private Discord where we're
actively talking about ways that we can
contribute to making a difference. Um,
you get ad free content, exclusive
podcasts with everyday people just like
you, subscribers of the channels who I'm
interviewing. Um, as well as private
videos where I explain my personal
thoughts and things that I'm trying to
do to overcome some of these situations.
Um, and all of this goes to fund the the
three to six month road trip I'm going
to do throughout the working-class
cities of the United States and rural
towns to give a microphone to
to the nation uh to be able to highlight
the the instances and the the
difficulties and the experiences that we
are facing. I know that this doesn't fix
the solution of this video, but at least
it's a step forward in some direction.
and I'm going to do the best to lead us
in a positive direction in a way that we
can get somewhere. Um, but I do need
your help and I need to make sure that
there are also leaders out there, you as
a leader to pave your path as well. Um,
so it's hard not to be discouraged
leaving this video, but please do not
leave in a negative light. Try to turn
this into at least we have the
information to act in a positive
direction. So, um, thank you all so much
for your support. I hope this provi has
provided value to you.